# 01: Empowering Non-teachers to Teach

## Context
A recent [research study](https://cepr.harvard.edu/files/cepr/files/5-4.pdf) indicated that children are 3-5 months behind academically because of the pandemic school closures. The report recommends wide-spread tutoring to close this gap.

Unfortunately, effective tutoring is economically out of reach for the majority of students (especially those most in need) because it requires highly skilled teachers. No-cost and low-cost options are available, but these are staffed by volunteers with varying degrees of teaching experience.

## Problem
Effective teaching is complex. At minimum, it requires a single person to know:
1. a subject deeply,
1. how to present that subject in bite-sized lessons,
1. how to customize those lessons a priori based on an expected audience,
1. how to identify and overcome learning failures during a lesson,
1. how to connect those lessons into a logical progression,
1. how to customize that progression based on the outcomes of previous lessons, and
1. how to motivate learners to exert effort over the long haul.

This is a tall task even for professional teachers and an almost insurmountable barrier for the countless parents, relatives, and volunteers that want to ensure children everywhere succeed.

## Insights
There are four key insights.

The first insight is that there is a large audience of non-teachers who want to help, but lack the skill to effectively do so. In other words, a solution that requires a human “guide” can still scale.

The second insight is that computer-based instruction (e.g. Khan Academy, Coursera, etc) is capable of everything on the above list except:

4. how to identify and overcome learning failures during a lesson,

and

7. how to motivate learners to exert effort over the long haul.

The third insight is that thoughtful instructional design can empower the guide to identify and signal common classes of learning failures. The computer-based instruction can then take corrective action as needed.

The fourth insight is that, by accommodating common classes of learning failures, this approach alleviates the tensest, most adversarial part of the process. Instead, guides and learners are traveling companions on a learning journey and this bond is a powerful motivator.
